# DVE-2017-0006: CDNetworks Co. nameserver fails to honour 0x20

## Description

The 0x20 technique is used to randomize upper/lower case in outgoing
queries lowering the attack surface by adding more random bits to the
communication when matching the incoming DNS answer for the same
capitalization in the QNAME section.

`{ns1,ns2,ns3,ns4}.panthercdn.com.` return `RCODE=REFUSED` instead of
`RCODE=NOERROR` for `p7677.cdngc.net. IN A` query when 0x20 technique
is used.  The `RCODE=REFUSED` is not returned consistently suggesting
there are different DNS implementation behind a load-balancing
front-end.

## Evidence

### All lowercase QNAME

```
$ kdig IN A p7677.cdngc.net. @ns1.panthercdn.com.
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY; status: NOERROR; id: 51999
;; Flags: qr aa rd; QUERY: 1; ANSWER: 0; AUTHORITY: 1; ADDITIONAL: 0

;; QUESTION SECTION:
;; p7677.cdngc.net.    		IN	A

;; AUTHORITY SECTION:
cdngc.net.          	120	IN	SOA	ns1.cdngc.net. noc.pantherexpress.net. 2016021700 1200 120 86400 120

;; Received 113 B
;; Time 2017-01-26 10:23:11 CET
;; From 174.35.89.33@53(UDP) in 21.5 ms

```

### 0x20 QNAME

```
$ kdig IN A p7677.CDNgc.net. @ns1.panthercdn.com.
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY; status: REFUSED; id: 11762
;; Flags: qr aa rd; QUERY: 1; ANSWER: 0; AUTHORITY: 0; ADDITIONAL: 0

;; QUESTION SECTION:
;; p7677.CDNgc.net.    		IN	A

;; Received 33 B
;; Time 2017-01-26 10:23:39 CET
;; From 174.35.89.33@53(UDP) in 21.3 ms
```

## Workaround

DNS Implementations are advised to ask without 0x20 randomization when
the receive `RCODE=REFUSED`.

## Proposed fix

CDNetworks Co. is advised to fix their nameserver implementation to
lowercase all incoming DNS queries when looking up the data for DNS
response, but preserve the case in the outgoing DNS message, see
[RFC1034](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1034.txt) Section 3.1:

> By convention, domain names can be stored with arbitrary case, but
> domain name comparisons for all present domain functions are done in a
> case-insensitive manner, assuming an ASCII character set, and a high
> order zero bit.  This means that you are free to create a node with
> label "A" or a node with label "a", but not both as brothers; you could
> refer to either using "a" or "A".  When you receive a domain name or
> label, you should preserve its case.  The rationale for this choice is
> that we may someday need to add full binary domain names for new
> services; existing services would not be changed.

Tags: 0x20
