# DVE-2020-0001: mail.protection.outlook.com nameservers fail to correctly deny EDNS support

## Description

The zone mail.protection.outlook.com has two nameservers:

```
$ dig +dnssec +short ns mail.protection.outlook.com
ns1-proddns.glbdns.o365filtering.com.
ns2-proddns.glbdns.o365filtering.com.
```

Queries to these nameservers using EDNS0 result in a response with a response code of FORMERR and an empty QUESTION section.  Recursive resolvers may drop the invalid response and fail to deduce that the nameserver does not support EDNS.

[RFC 1035](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1035) section 7.3 specifies:

  > The next step is to match the response to a current resolver request.  The recommended strategy is to do a preliminary matching using the ID field in the domain header, and then to verify that the question section corresponds to the information currently desired.

[RFC 5452 section 4.2](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5452#section-4.2) specifies:

  > DNS packets, both queries and responses, contain a question section.  Incoming responses should be verified to have a question section that is equivalent to that of the outgoing query.

## Evidence

Evidence is provided here for one nameserver.  Both nameservers behave in the same way.

```
$ dig +edns=0 +norecurse ns mail.protection.outlook.com @ns1-proddns.glbdns.o365filtering.com

; <<>> DiG 9.11.5-P4-5.1-Debian <<>> +edns=0 +norecurse ns mail.protection.outlook.com @ns1-proddns.glbdns.o365filtering.com
;; global options: +cmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: FORMERR, id: 22548
;; flags: qr; QUERY: 0, ANSWER: 0, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 0

;; WARNING: EDNS query returned status FORMERR - retry with '+noedns'

;; Query time: 26 msec
;; SERVER: 104.47.118.145#53(104.47.118.145)
;; WHEN: Fri May 29 22:41:02 UTC 2020
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 12
```

## Proposed fix

Nameservers should populate the QUESTION section with the content of the query QUESTION section.

## DNS Operator/Vendor Response

It has not been possible to contact the vendor.

## Metadata

Submitter: Brian Somers
Submit-Date: 2020-05-29
Tags: EDNS, FORMERR
